Clarifications for Memory Location Descriptions

This is a part in a series of proposals related to support for debugging on
heterogeneous architectures. This proposal lays groundwork for subsequent
proposals by introducing the concept of addressable memory storage that is
associated with each address space supported by a target architecture, which
heretofore had only been alluded to in the spec (See Section 1.3.2).


BACKGROUND
----------

The changes proposed below introduce the concept of distinct memory storage for
each address space supported by a target architecture, and a default address
space for the target architecture. Subsequent proposals will make use of this,
allowing memory location descriptions to specify address spaces other than the
default one.


PROPOSED CHANGES
----------------

In Section 2.6.1.1.2 (now 2.6.2), add the following after the first
paragraph:

    --------------------------------------------------------------------
    Each of the target architecture specific address spaces has a
    corresponding memory location storage that denotes the linear
    addressable memory of that address space. The size of each memory
    location storage corresponds to the range of the addresses in the
    corresponding address space.

    [non-normative] It is target architecture defined how address space
    location storage maps to target architecture physical memory. For
    example, they may be independent memory, or more than one location
    storage may alias the same physical memory possibly at different
    offsets and with different interleaving. The mapping may also be
    dictated by the source language address classes.

    A memory location description specifies a memory location storage.
    The bit offset corresponds to a bit position within a byte of the
    memory. Bits accessed using a memory location description, access
    the corresponding target architecture memory starting at the bit
    position within the byte specified by the bit offset.

    A memory location description that has a bit offset that is a
    multiple of 8 (the byte size) is defined to be a byte address memory
    location description. It has a memory byte address that is equal
    to the bit offset divided by 8.

    A memory location description that does not have a bit offset that
    is a multiple of 8 (the byte size) is defined to be a bit field
    memory location description. It has a memory byte address equal to
    the integer division of the bit offset divided by 8 and a bit
    position equal to the bit offset modulo 8.

    The address space of a memory location description is defined to
    be the address space that corresponds to the memory location storage
    associated with the memory location description.

    A location description without an address space is defined to be a
    memory location address referring to the default target address
    space.
    --------------------------------------------------------------------
